Taiwan hospital blaze leaves many dead

Tuesday's blaze started in the early hours at Sinying Hospital's nursing facility housing mainly bed-bound senior patients in the southern city of Tainan, health officials said.

Tsai Ming-shih, who works for Sinying Hospital, said the 12 patients, who were housed on the second floor, died of smoke inhalation.

A fire official told reporters that the blaze possibly started in a storage room of the five-floor building, part of the Sinying Hospital.

More than 100 patients were evacuated during the incident, a local health official said.

An earlier estimate by an official had placed the number of injured at 72, but this was revised down in a health department statement.

TVBS cable news channel reported that relatives of the patients rushed to the hospital seeking their whereabouts as health minister Chiu Wen-ta assured the public that the authorities would identify the patients as soon as possible.

Television footage showed bed and wheelchair-bound patients being carried out from the burnt-out second floor to the hospital's lawn.

It was the worst hospital fire in recent years and the cause of the fire is under investigation, officials said.

Sean Chen, the Taiwanese prime minister, expressed his shock at the incident and sent his condolences to the families of the victims, his office said in a statement.

###

Taiwan hospital fire kills 12 elderly residents

An early morning fire at a hospital in southern Taiwan has killed 12 patients and injured at least 60 more.

The fire swept through a nursing home inside the hospital in Tainan City that housed elderly and mostly bed-ridden patients.

A hospital official said the victims died of smoke inhalation. Injured residents were being treated at several different hospitals.

Police say they have arrested a man on suspicion of starting the fire.

Local reports say the man is a patient at the nursing home.

Remote location
The nursing home housed more than 100 people, many of whom were on respirators and unable to move on their own.

"It was pitch black and the heavy smoke was unbearable, it's really horrifying," a person who escaped the fire told Taiwan's Central News Agency.

One 94-year-old woman had to use her wheelchair to escape the blaze, hiding on the second floor until rescuers found her, local media reported.

Thirty fire engines were sent to the blaze, which was extinguished by 04:16 local time (20:16 GMT), just over 45 minutes after it was reported, officials said.

Tainan Mayor Lai Ching-te said the hospital's remote location and the fact that most of the patients were unable to move on their own made the situation worse.

Firefighters arrived at the scene 10 minutes after the fire broke out, but because of the large number of patients nearby residents had to pitch in to help transport some of them to other hospitals, says the BBC's Cindy Sui in Taipei.

The fire is believed to be one of deadliest at a Taiwanese hospital and one of the most serious on the island in recent years, says our correspondent.

Premier Sean Chen said in a statement that he had sent condolences to the victims' families.

Are you in Tainan City? Did you witness the fire? Do you have any friends or family members affected? Send us your comments using the form below.

Send your pictures and videos to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or text them to 61124 (UK) or +44 7624 800 100 (International). If you have a large file you can upload here.

###

Massacre at Syrian Bakery Dims Hopes for a Holiday Truce

Syrian artillery gunners shelled a bread bakery full of workers and customers on Tuesday in an insurgent-held neighborhood of Aleppo, Syria's largest city, killing at least 20 people and wounding more than 30 in what activists and videographers described as a sudden and devastating attack.

The shelling at Al Zura Bakery was among the more graphic episodes of violence to hit Aleppo and the capital, Damascus, on Tuesday, casting further doubts on the already dim prospects of a nationwide cease-fire for the coming Id al-Adha holiday, which the newly appointed peace envoy from the United Nations and Arab League, Lakhdar Brahimi, has been trying to negotiate for the past week.

Disturbing video uploaded to the Internet, which appeared genuine but could not be corroborated independently, showed what was described as the aftermath of the bakery shelling in Aleppo's Hanano district, with mangled bodies interspersed with upended loaves of freshly baked pita on the bakery's bloodied floor, as screaming rescue workers hauled the dead and wounded to waiting pickup trucks and taxicabs. Some of the victims were children, including a girl who was decapitated.

Abu al-Hasan, an activist from the Aleppo suburb of Maree, said in a Skype interview that most of the dead were bakery workers. He said it was unclear whether the attackers had been aiming for the bakery, located in a large warehouse. "The problem is those kinds of missiles are not guided to their intended targets," he said. "They're not precise. They fall on random buildings."

He said the shelling came as residents of the neighborhood, who had been too afraid to venture outside for the past few days, finally took the risk in order to buy food for Id al-Adha, a widely celebrated Muslim holiday that starts on Friday.

Aleppo, near Syria's northern border with Turkey, has been under siege for three months and has become a focal point of the insurgency against President Bashar al-Assad. Rebels have frustrated attempts by Syrian forces to retake the entire city and have threatened to cut off the military's supply lines there.

At the same time, bakeries in rebel-held areas of Aleppo have emerged as vitally important resources that are clearly potential targets for Syrian forces seeking to starve insurgents and their sympathizers into submission. Many of the bakeries are run by the insurgents, who have learned how to bake bread as part of the war effort.

The bakery attack came as Mr. Brahimi, a veteran Algerian statesman who became the special Syria peace envoy last month, left Syria after having met with President Assad and his subordinates over the weekend. A statement issued by the United Nations said Mr. Brahimi had held "frank and substantive" discussions with Mr. Assad, who had "given a positive reaction to his call for the government to declare a military pause during the Id al-Adha holiday."

But there was no official announcement of such a truce. Many Syrian activists and opposition figures had said it was highly unlikely anyway, given what they called Mr. Assad's complete lack of credibility and the inability of Mr. Brahimi's predecessor, Kofi Annan, to broker a pause in the fighting.

Mr. Brahimi had said he hoped that a religiously inspired truce would be the basis for at least the start of a dialogue between antagonists in the 19-month-old conflict, which has left more than 20,000 people dead. He is to brief the Security Council by video link from Cairo on Wednesday, said Martin Nesirky, a United Nations spokesman.

In Geneva, the United Nations refugee agency reported Tuesday that the number of Syrians who have fled to neighboring countries to escape the conflict had climbed to more than 358,000 and that Lebanon had become the third country, following Turkey and Jordan, to house more than 100,000 Syrian refugees.

Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the refugee agency, said in a statement that the sectarian mayhem in Lebanon caused by a bombing in Beirut on Friday had temporarily disrupted the agency's registration work in Lebanon. She also said most of the Syrians who had entered Lebanon to escape the war are from Homs, Syria's third-largest city.

Hania Mourtada contributed reporting from Beirut, Lebanon.

###

Deadly Taliban ambush in western Afghanistan

At least 10 members of the Afghan National Security Forces, ANSF, have died in a gun battle with the Taliban in western Afghanistan, local officials report.

A district police chief was among the five soldiers and five policemen killed in a late Monday raid on a convoy of security forces in Herat province.

"The enemies of our country ambushed our police convoy by using the dark night which resulted in the martyrdom of five Afghan police including Bismullah Khan - chief of Aubi district", said Bismullah Khan, provincial police spokesman.

A spokesman for Muhiudin Noori, provincial governor, said a group of Afghan National Police and Afghan National Army were searching on Monday for a group of fighters who had earlier set up a roadblock, stopping and seizing passing vehicles, when they were ambushed.

The Herat ambush was the bloodiest single incident for ANSF in western Afghanistan so far this year.

In recent months, fighters have been switching tactics and increasingly targeting Afghan security forces as the international coalition continues its drawdown toward a planned withdrawal of the majority of combat troops in 2014.

In the announcement of its so-called "spring offensive", the Taliban had cited ANSF as among their chief targets.

There were no reported casualties among the fighters, but police later arrested 25 suspects found in the area, Noori said.

Earlier on Tuesday, Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, condemned a NATO raid on Sunday that killed four children in eastern Logar province.

"Despite repeated pledges by NATO to avoid civilian casualties, innocent lives including of children are still being lost in fighting a terrorism whose havens and sanctuaries remain safe outside Afghanistan's borders", a statement issued by the presidential palace in Kabul read.

Coalition troops carried out the operation in Baraki Barak district in an effort to apprehend two armed fighters. But this resulted in the deaths of the four children who were tending to their animals in the same area, the statement said.

General John Allen, commander of the International Security Assistance Forces in Afghanistan, ISAF,  offered his condolences to the victims'  families in a statement issued by the coalition and said he would meet them personally to offer "condolence payments".

Din Mohammad Darwesh, spokesman for the provincial governor, said the victims were between 10 and 13 years old.

On Sunday, NATO said it had conducted a precision airstrike in Baraki Barak district which killed three fighters."No other individuals were reported nearby at the time of the strike," a coalition statement said.

###

Car bombs, mortars kill nine in Baghdad Shi'ite districts

BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Bomb blasts and mortars killed at least nine people and wounded 28 more in Shi'ite districts in Baghdad on Tuesday, just days before Iraqis started celebrating the Islamic Eid al-Adha religious festival.

Car bombs exploded and mortars landed around the Shi'ite neighborhood of Shula, northwestern Baghdad, killing 8 people and wounded 28, and another person was killed by a mortar round in Kadhimiya area, police and hospital sources said.

"Three car bombs exploded one after the other, and we started to hear the screaming and shouting," said a policeman who was patrolling in Shula. "Some walls of houses collapsed, and glass was shattered everywhere."

Violence in Iraq is well below the bloody peak of sectarian war in 2006-2007, but al Qaeda affiliates and other Sunni Islamist insurgents often target Shi'ites in an attempt to stoke tensions between Sunni and Shi'ite communities.

The insurgents have launched one major assault a month since U.S. troops withdrew in December. Security officials say they believe insurgents may try to carry out a large attack during the religious holiday starting on Friday.

The monthly death toll from militant attacks across Iraq doubled in September to 365, the highest figure for more than two years, with most of them killed in bomb attacks, according to government figures released this month.

(Reporting by Baghdad newsroom; writing by Patrick Markey)

###

Eight found dead, some tortured, in Mexico City

Eight bodies have been found, including six showing signs of torture, in Mexico City, police report. Five men and one woman were dumped on the street, and " were all naked and showed signs of torture. It also appeared their throats had been cut." A few streets over, police found the bodies of two men aged between 18 and 22 that had gunshot wounds. Police suspect possible gang activity. More than 60,000 people have been murdered in Mexico after President Felipe Calderon launched a military campaign on drug cartels six years ago.

###

African 'migrants' drown as boat sails to Spain

At least 14 people have drowned after a boat believed to be carrying African migrants started sinking off the coast of Morocco, Spanish officials said.

The Spanish coast guard said another 17 people had been rescued off the coast of Alhucemas.

One survivor said the boat had been carrying more than 70 migrants and a search is continuing, officials said.

Those on the boat are believed to be from sub-Saharan Africa.

A Spanish coast guard plane spotted the boat about 18 miles (29km) off the Moroccan coast on Thursday afternoon following a tip-off nearly 24 hours earlier that it had left Nador, Morocco, and was heading to Spain.

The Spanish newspaper El Pais said the alarm had been raised by a family member of a passenger on the boat.

The aircraft dropped an inflatable raft and some survivors managed to scramble on to it, the paper reported.

The survivors - 14 men and three women - were taken to the Moroccan port of Alhucemas. Some were said to be in need of urgent medical attention.

The BBC's Tom Burridge in Madrid says hundreds attempt the treacherous crossing from Morroco to Spain every year, often in basic boats, but many don't survive the journey.

In recent years Spain has seen a decline in the numbers of African migrants reaching its shores by boat, since a peak of 13,425 in 2008.

The migrants, fleeing poverty in West Africa, risk their lives in open, rickety boats threatened by strong currents.

###

Dozens dead in Afghanistan Eid suicide blast

The Afghan president called the perpetrators of the attack 'the enemies of Islam and humanity' [Reuters]
A suicide attacker has killed at least 41 people and injured 51 in northern Afghanistan, local officials have said.

The attack on Friday occurred when a man detonated explosives that he was carrying outside a mosque in Maymana, the capital of Faryab province.

Witnesses say the attacker was wearing a police uniform as he passed through four security checkpoints.

He blew himself up at the entrance to the city's packed Eid Gah mosque, deputy provincial governor Abdul Satar Barez told the AFP news agency.

"Our latest death toll shows 41 deaths, and that might rise," he said.

"Nineteen were members of the security forces, including police, army and intelligence agents. Seventeen were civilians and five children are also among the dead."

Faryab, in Afghanistan's northwest, had been mostly peaceful until last week, whenan Afghan special forces operation killed the Taliban’s shadow provincial governor. Over 20 fighters were also killed in the attack.

Sediq Sediqqi, Afghan ministry of interior spokesman, called that operation "very successful" and cited it as a possible basis for Friday's attack.

Military targeted

Al Jazeera's Bernard Smith, reporting from Kabul, said the 41 victims were a mixture of civilians and members of the Afghan National Security Forces.

The bulk of those killed were outside the mosque at the time of the attack.

"It appears the target was military and security force members", he said.

The provincial police chief sustained some injury.

Barez, like many other provincial officials, was at the scene at the time of the bombing and described the horror of the blast in the midst of a religious celebration.

"We had just finished Eid al-Adha prayers and we were congratulating and hugging each other," he said.

"Suddenly a big explosion took place and the area was full of dust and smoke and body parts of police and civilians were all over the place. It was a very powerful explosion."

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

One witness, Sayed Moqeed, described the bomber as appearing to be in his early teens.

"Suddenly I heard a very big explosion," he said. "Everywhere were pieces of bodies, hands and limbs. The suicide attacker was in police uniform, he looked to be around 14 or 15 years old."

Candace Rondeaux, a senior Afghanistan analyst with the International Crisis Group, a think-tank, said there were other actors participating in the conflict apart from the Taliban.

"There's so much focus on the Taliban and, of course, the pro-Islamist insurgency. What has to be remembered is that it is a deeply fragmented security environment where you have rival factions operating on a district-by-district [and] province-by-province basis," Rondeaux told Al Jazeera.

Surge in violence

Recently tribal elders seen as supporting the government have been killed by the Taliban in Faryab.

Rondeaux said in the north there had been an increase in violence in the past six months and targeted assassinations, particularly in the neighbourhood of Faryab, citing the killing three months ago of a member of parliament.

"We are likely to see a lot more skirmishes as the transition [that will follow the withdrawal of foreign troops] continues," Rondeaux said. 

The attack comes on the first of the three-day Eid holiday in Afghanistan.

Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, strongly condemned the attack, calling the perpetrators "the enemies of Islam and humanity".

"Those who take the happiness of Muslims during Eid days cannot be called human and Muslim," he said.

The US embassy in Kabul also "strongly" condemned the attack saying: "This attack against innocent worshippers further demonstrates the insurgency’s lack of respect for religion, faith and its disregard for the safety and security of the Afghan people ... Our sympathies go out to those affected by today’s bombing, and we wish a speedy recovery to the wounded".

Northern Afghanistan is relatively peaceful, with the Taliban, toppled from power in a US-led invasion in 2001, concentrating their operations in the south and east of the country.

The UN says 1,145 civilians were killed in the war in the first six months of this year, blaming 80 per cent of the deaths on anti-government fighters. Last year as a whole, a record 3,021 civilians died in the war, according to UN figures.
